FEDERALIST No. 49                                                               
                                                                                
Method of Guarding Against the Encroachments of Any One                         
Department of Government by Appealing to the People Through a                   
Convention                                                                      
From the New York Packet. Tuesday, February 5, 1788.                            
                                                                                
HAMILTON OR MADISON                                                             
                                                                                
To the People of the State of New York:                                         
THE author of the ``Notes on the State of Virginia,'' quoted in                 
the last paper, has subjoined to that valuable work the draught                 
of a constitution, which had been prepared in order to be laid                  
before a convention, expected to be called in 1783, by the                      
legislature, for the establishment of a constitution for that                   
commonwealth. The plan, like every thing from the same pen, marks               
a turn of thinking, original, comprehensive, and accurate; and is               
the more worthy of attention as it equally displays a fervent                   
attachment to republican government and an enlightened view of                  
the dangerous propensities against which it ought to be guarded.                
One of the precautions which he proposes, and on which he appears               
ultimately to rely as a palladium to the weaker departments of                  
power against the invasions of the stronger, is perhaps                         
altogether his own, and as it immediately relates to the subject                
of our present inquiry, ought not to be overlooked. His                         
proposition is, ``that whenever any two of the three branches of                
government shall concur in opinion, each by the voices of two                   
thirds of their whole number, that a convention is necessary for                
altering the constitution, or CORRECTING BREACHES OF IT, a                      
convention shall be called for the purpose. ''As the people are                 
the only legitimate fountain of power, and it is from them that                 
the constitutional charter, under which the several branches of                 
government hold their power, is derived, it seems strictly                      
consonant to the republican theory, to recur to the same original               
authority, not only whenever it may be necessary to enlarge,                    
diminish, or new-model the powers of the government, but also                   
whenever any one of the departments may commit encroachments on                 
the chartered authorities of the others. The several departments                
being perfectly co-ordinate by the terms of their common                        
commission, none of them, it is evident, can pretend to an                      
exclusive or superior right of settling the boundaries between                  
their respective powers; and how are the encroachments of the                   
stronger to be prevented, or the wrongs of the weaker to be                     
redressed, without an appeal to the people themselves, who, as                  
the grantors of the commissions, can alone declare its true                     
meaning, and enforce its observance? There is certainly great                   
force in this reasoning, and it must be allowed to prove that a                 
constitutional road to the decision of the people ought to be                   
marked out and kept open, for certain great and extraordinary                   
occasions. But there appear to be insuperable objections against                
the proposed recurrence to the people, as a provision in all                    
cases for keeping the several departments of power within their                 
constitutional limits. In the first place, the provision does not               
reach the case of a combination of two of the departments against               
the third. If the legislative authority, which possesses so many                
means of operating on the motives of the other departments,                     
should be able to gain to its interest either of the others, or                 
even one third of its members, the remaining department could                   
derive no advantage from its remedial provision. I do not dwell,                
however, on this objection, because it may be thought to be                     
rather against the modification of the principle, than against                  
the principle itself. In the next place, it may be considered as                
an objection inherent in the principle, that as every appeal to                 
the people would carry an implication of some defect in the                     
government, frequent appeals would, in a great measure, deprive                 
the government of that veneration which time bestows on every                   
thing, and without which perhaps the wisest and freest                          
governments would not possess the requisite stability. If it be                 
true that all governments rest on opinion, it is no less true                   
that the strength of opinion in each individual, and its                        
practical influence on his conduct, depend much on the number                   
which he supposes to have entertained the same opinion. The                     
reason of man, like man himself, is timid and cautious when left                
alone, and acquires firmness and confidence in proportion to the                
number with which it is associated. When the examples which                     
fortify opinion are ANCIENT as well as NUMEROUS, they are known                 
to have a double effect. In a nation of philosophers, this                      
consideration ought to be disregarded. A reverence for the laws                 
would be sufficiently inculcated by the voice of an enlightened                 
reason. But a nation of philosophers is as little to be expected                
as the philosophical race of kings wished for by Plato. And in                  
every other nation, the most rational government will not find it               
a superfluous advantage to have the prejudices of the community                 
on its side. The danger of disturbing the public tranquillity by                
interesting too strongly the public passions, is a still more                   
serious objection against a frequent reference of constitutional                
questions to the decision of the whole society. Notwithstanding                 
the success which has attended the revisions of our established                 
forms of government, and which does so much honor to the virtue                 
and intelligence of the people of America, it must be confessed                 
that the experiments are of too ticklish a nature to be                         
unnecessarily multiplied. We are to recollect that all the                      
existing constitutions were formed in the midst of a danger which               
repressed the passions most unfriendly to order and concord; of                 
an enthusiastic confidence of the people in their patriotic                     
leaders, which stifled the ordinary diversity of opinions on                    
great national questions; of a universal ardor for new and                      
opposite forms, produced by a universal resentment and                          
indignation against the ancient government; and whilst no spirit                
of party connected with the changes to be made, or the abuses to                
be reformed, could mingle its leaven in the operation. The future               
situations in which we must expect to be usually placed, do not                 
present any equivalent security against the danger which is                     
apprehended. But the greatest objection of all is, that the                     
decisions which would probably result from such appeals would not               
answer the purpose of maintaining the constitutional equilibrium                
of the government. We have seen that the tendency of republican                 
governments is to an aggrandizement of the legislative at the                   
expense of the other departments. The appeals to the people,                    
therefore, would usually be made by the executive and judiciary                 
departments. But whether made by one side or the other, would                   
each side enjoy equal advantages on the trial? Let us view their                
different situations. The members of the executive and judiciary                
departments are few in number, and can be personally known to a                 
small part only of the people. The latter, by the mode of their                 
appointment, as well as by the nature and permanency of it, are                 
too far removed from the people to share much in their                          
prepossessions. The former are generally the objects of jealousy,               
and their administration is always liable to be discolored and                  
rendered unpopular. The members of the legislative department, on               
the other hand, are numberous. They are distributed and dwell                   
among the people at large. Their connections of blood, of                       
friendship, and of acquaintance embrace a great proportion of the               
most influential part of the society. The nature of their public                
trust implies a personal influence among the people, and that                   
they are more immediately the confidential guardians of the                     
rights and liberties of the people. With these advantages, it can               
hardly be supposed that the adverse party would have an equal                   
chance for a favorable issue. But the legislative party would not               
only be able to plead their cause most successfully with the                    
people. They would probably be constituted themselves the judges.               
The same influence which had gained them an election into the                   
legislature, would gain them a seat in the convention. If this                  
should not be the case with all, it would probably be the case                  
with many, and pretty certainly with those leading characters, on               
whom every thing depends in such bodies. The convention, in                     
short, would be composed chiefly of men who had been, who                       
actually were, or who expected to be, members of the department                 
whose conduct was arraigned. They would consequently be parties                 
to the very question to be decided by them. It might, however,                  
sometimes happen, that appeals would be made under circumstances                
less adverse to the executive and judiciary departments. The                    
usurpations of the legislature might be so flagrant and so                      
sudden, as to admit of no specious coloring. A strong party                     
among themselves might take side with the other branches. The                   
executive power might be in the hands of a peculiar favorite of                 
the people. In such a posture of things, the public decision                    
might be less swayed by prepossessions in favor of the                          
legislative party. But still it could never be expected to turn                 
on the true merits of the question. It would inevitably be                      
connected with the spirit of pre-existing parties, or of parties                
springing out of the question itself. It would be connected with                
persons of distinguished character and extensive influence in the               
community. It would be pronounced by the very men who had been                  
agents in, or opponents of, the measures to which the decision                  
would relate. The PASSIONS, therefore, not the REASON, of the                   
public would sit in judgment. But it is the reason, alone, of the               
public, that ought to control and regulate the government. The                  
passions ought to be controlled and regulated by the government.                
We found in the last paper, that mere declarations in the written               
constitution are not sufficient to restrain the several                         
departments within their legal rights. It appears in this, that                 
occasional appeals to the people would be neither a proper nor an               
effectual provision for that purpose. How far the provisions of a               
different nature contained in the plan above quoted might be                    
adequate, I do not examine. Some of them are unquestionably                     
founded on sound political principles, and all of them are framed               
with singular ingenuity and precision. PUBLIUS.                                 
                                                                                
                                                                                
FEDERALIST. No. 1                                                               
                                                                                
General Introduction                                                            
For the Independent Journal.                                                    
                                                                                
HAMILTON                                                                        
                                                                                
To the People of the State of New York:                                         
AFTER an unequivocal experience of the inefficiency of the                      
 subsisting federal government, you are called upon to deliberate on            
 a new Constitution for the United States of America. The subject               
 speaks its own importance; comprehending in its consequences                   
 nothing less than the existence of the UNION, the safety and welfare           
 of the parts of which it is composed, the fate of an empire in many            
 respects the most interesting in the world. It has been frequently             
 remarked that it seems to have been reserved to the people of this             
 country, by their conduct and example, to decide the important                 
 question, whether societies of men are really capable or not of                
 establishing good government from reflection and choice, or whether            
 they are forever destined to depend for their political                        
 constitutions on accident and force. If there be any truth in the              
 remark, the crisis at which we are arrived may with propriety be               
 regarded as the era in which that decision is to be made; and a                
 wrong election of the part we shall act may, in this view, deserve             
 to be considered as the general misfortune of mankind.                         
This idea will add the inducements of philanthropy to those of                  
 patriotism, to heighten the solicitude which all considerate and               
 good men must feel for the event. Happy will it be if our choice               
 should be directed by a judicious estimate of our true interests,              
 unperplexed and unbiased by considerations not connected with the              
 public good. But this is a thing more ardently to be wished than               
 seriously to be expected. The plan offered to our deliberations                
 affects too many particular interests, innovates upon too many local           
 institutions, not to involve in its discussion a variety of objects            
 foreign to its merits, and of views, passions and prejudices little            
 favorable to the discovery of truth.                                           
Among the most formidable of the obstacles which the new                        
 Constitution will have to encounter may readily be distinguished the           
 obvious interest of a certain class of men in every State to resist            
 all changes which may hazard a diminution of the power, emolument,             
 and consequence of the offices they hold under the State                       
 establishments; and the perverted ambition of another class of men,            
 who will either hope to aggrandize themselves by the confusions of             
 their country, or will flatter themselves with fairer prospects of             
 elevation from the subdivision of the empire into several partial              
 confederacies than from its union under one government.                        
It is not, however, my design to dwell upon observations of this                
 nature. I am well aware that it would be disingenuous to resolve               
 indiscriminately the opposition of any set of men (merely because              
 their situations might subject them to suspicion) into interested or           
 ambitious views. Candor will oblige us to admit that even such men             
 may be actuated by upright intentions; and it cannot be doubted                
 that much of the opposition which has made its appearance, or may              
 hereafter make its appearance, will spring from sources, blameless             
 at least, if not respectable--the honest errors of minds led astray            
 by preconceived jealousies and fears. So numerous indeed and so                
 powerful are the causes which serve to give a false bias to the                
 judgment, that we, upon many occasions, see wise and good men on the           
 wrong as well as on the right side of questions of the first                   
 magnitude to society. This circumstance, if duly attended to, would            
 furnish a lesson of moderation to those who are ever so much                   
 persuaded of their being in the right in any controversy. And a                
 further reason for caution, in this respect, might be drawn from the           
 reflection that we are not always sure that those who advocate the             
 truth are influenced by purer principles than their antagonists.               
 Ambition, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition, and many              
 other motives not more laudable than these, are apt to operate as              
 well upon those who support as those who oppose the right side of a            
 question. Were there not even these inducements to moderation,                 
 nothing could be more ill-judged than that intolerant spirit which             
 has, at all times, characterized political parties. For in                     
 politics, as in religion, it is equally absurd to aim at making                
 proselytes by fire and sword. Heresies in either can rarely be                 
 cured by persecution.                                                          
And yet, however just these sentiments will be allowed to be, we                
 have already sufficient indications that it will happen in this as             
 in all former cases of great national discussion. A torrent of                 
 angry and malignant passions will be let loose. To judge from the              
 conduct of the opposite parties, we shall be led to conclude that              
 they will mutually hope to evince the justness of their opinions,              
 and to increase the number of their converts by the loudness of                
 their declamations and the bitterness of their invectives. An                  
 enlightened zeal for the energy and efficiency of government will be           
 stigmatized as the offspring of a temper fond of despotic power and            
 hostile to the principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealousy              
 of danger to the rights of the people, which is more commonly the              
 fault of the head than of the heart, will be represented as mere               
 pretense and artifice, the stale bait for popularity at the expense            
 of the public good. It will be forgotten, on the one hand, that                
 jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the noble                  
 enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow            
 and illiberal distrust. On the other hand, it will be equally                  
 forgotten that the vigor of government is essential to the security            
 of liberty; that, in the contemplation of a sound and well-informed            
 judgment, their interest can never be separated; and that a                    
 dangerous ambition more often lurks behind the specious mask of zeal           
 for the rights of the people than under the forbidden appearance of            
 zeal for the firmness and efficiency of government. History will               
 teach us that the former has been found a much more certain road to            
 the introduction of despotism than the latter, and that of those men           
 who have overturned the liberties of republics, the greatest number            
 have begun their career by paying an obsequious court to the people;           
 commencing demagogues, and ending tyrants.                                     
In the course of the preceding observations, I have had an eye,                 
 my fellow-citizens, to putting you upon your guard against all                 
 attempts, from whatever quarter, to influence your decision in a               
 matter of the utmost moment to your welfare, by any impressions                
 other than those which may result from the evidence of truth. You              
 will, no doubt, at the same time, have collected from the general              
 scope of them, that they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the           
 new Constitution. Yes, my countrymen, I own to you that, after                 
 having given it an attentive consideration, I am clearly of opinion            
 it is your interest to adopt it. I am convinced that this is the               
 safest course for your liberty, your dignity, and your happiness. I            
 affect not reserves which I do not feel. I will not amuse you with             
 an appearance of deliberation when I have decided. I frankly                   
 acknowledge to you my convictions, and I will freely lay before you            
 the reasons on which they are founded. The consciousness of good               
 intentions disdains ambiguity. I shall not, however, multiply                  
 professions on this head. My motives must remain in the depository             
 of my own breast. My arguments will be open to all, and may be                 
 judged of by all. They shall at least be offered in a spirit which             
 will not disgrace the cause of truth.                                          
I propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the following                      
 interesting particulars:                                                       
THE UTILITY OF THE UNION TO YOUR POLITICAL PROSPERITY                           
THE INSUFFICIENCY OF THE PRESENT CONFEDERATION                                  
 TO PRESERVE THAT UNION  THE NECESSITY OF A GOVERNMENT AT LEAST                 
 EQUALLY ENERGETIC WITH THE ONE PROPOSED, TO THE ATTAINMENT OF THIS             
 OBJECT  THE CONFORMITY OF THE PROPOSED CONSTITUTION TO THE TRUE                
 PRINCIPLES OF REPUBLICAN GOVERNMENT                                            
 ITS ANALOGY TO YOUR OWN STATE CONSTITUTION                                     
 and lastly, THE ADDITIONAL SECURITY WHICH ITS                                  
 ADOPTION WILL AFFORD TO THE PRESERVATION OF THAT SPECIES OF                    
 GOVERNMENT, TO LIBERTY, AND TO PROPERTY.                                       
In the progress of this discussion I shall endeavor to give a                   
 satisfactory answer to all the objections which shall have made                
 their appearance, that may seem to have any claim to your attention.           
It may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer arguments to                     
 prove the utility of the UNION, a point, no doubt, deeply engraved             
 on the hearts of the great body of the people in every State, and              
 one, which it may be imagined, has no adversaries. But the fact is,            
 that we already hear it whispered in the private circles of those              
 who oppose the new Constitution, that the thirteen States are of too           
 great extent for any general system, and that we must of necessity             
 resort to separate confederacies of distinct portions of the                   
 whole.1 This doctrine will, in all probability, be gradually                   
 propagated, till it has votaries enough to countenance an open                 
 avowal of it. For nothing can be more evident, to those who are                
 able to take an enlarged view of the subject, than the alternative             
 of an adoption of the new Constitution or a dismemberment of the               
 Union. It will therefore be of use to begin by examining the                   
 advantages of that Union, the certain evils, and the probable                  
 dangers, to which every State will be exposed from its dissolution.            
 This shall accordingly constitute the subject of my next address.              
 PUBLIUS.                                                                       
1 The same idea, tracing the arguments to their consequences, is                
 held out in several of the late publications against the new                   
 Constitution.                                                                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
FEDERALIST No. 2                                                                
                                                                                
Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and Influence                             
For the Independent Journal.                                                    
                                                                                
JAY                                                                             
                                                                                
To the People of the State of New York:                                         
WHEN the people of America reflect that they are now called upon                
 to decide a question, which, in its consequences, must prove one of            
 the most important that ever engaged their attention, the propriety            
 of their taking a very comprehensive, as well as a very serious,               
 view of it, will be evident.                                                   
Nothing is more certain than the indispensable necessity of                     
 government, and it is equally undeniable, that whenever and however            
 it is instituted, the people must cede to it some of their natural             
 rights in order to vest it with requisite powers. It is well worthy            
 of consideration therefore, whether it would conduce more to the               
 interest of the people of America that they should, to all general             
 purposes, be one nation, under one federal government, or that they            
 should divide themselves into separate confederacies, and give to              
 the head of each the same kind of powers which they are advised to             
 place in one national government.                                              
It has until lately been a received and uncontradicted opinion                  
 that the prosperity of the people of America depended on their                 
 continuing firmly united, and the wishes, prayers, and efforts of              
 our best and wisest citizens have been constantly directed to that             
 object. But politicians now appear, who insist that this opinion is            
 erroneous, and that instead of looking for safety and happiness in             
 union, we ought to seek it in a division of the States into distinct           
 confederacies or sovereignties. However extraordinary this new                 
 doctrine may appear, it nevertheless has its advocates; and certain            
 characters who were much opposed to it formerly, are at present of             
 the number. Whatever may be the arguments or inducements which have            
 wrought this change in the sentiments and declarations of these                
 gentlemen, it certainly would not be wise in the people at large to            
 adopt these new political tenets without being fully convinced that            
 they are founded in truth and sound policy.                                    
It has often given me pleasure to observe that independent                      
 America was not composed of detached and distant territories, but              
 that one connected, fertile, widespreading country was the portion             
 of our western sons of liberty. Providence has in a particular                 
 manner blessed it with a variety of soils and productions, and                 
 watered it with innumerable streams, for the delight and                       
 accommodation of its inhabitants. A succession of navigable waters             
 forms a kind of chain round its borders, as if to bind it together;            
 while the most noble rivers in the world, running at convenient                
 distances, present them with highways for the easy communication of            
 friendly aids, and the mutual transportation and exchange of their             
 various commodities.                                                           
With equal pleasure I have as often taken notice that Providence                
 has been pleased to give this one connected country to one united              
 people--a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same          
 language, professing the same religion, attached to the same                   
 principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs,           
 and who, by their joint counsels, arms, and efforts, fighting side             
 by side throughout a long and bloody war, have nobly established               
 general liberty and independence.                                              
This country and this people seem to have been made for each                    
 other, and it appears as if it was the design of Providence, that an           
 inheritance so proper and convenient for a band of brethren, united            
 to each other by the strongest ties, should never be split into a              
 number of unsocial, jealous, and alien sovereignties.                          
Similar sentiments have hitherto prevailed among all orders and                 
 denominations of men among us. To all general purposes we have                 
 uniformly been one people each individual citizen everywhere                   
 enjoying the same national rights, privileges, and protection. As a            
 nation we have made peace and war; as a nation we have vanquished              
 our common enemies; as a nation we have formed alliances, and made             
 treaties, and entered into various compacts and conventions with               
 foreign states.                                                                
A strong sense of the value and blessings of union induced the                  
 people, at a very early period, to institute a federal government to           
 preserve and perpetuate it. They formed it almost as soon as they              
 had a political existence; nay, at a time when their habitations               
 were in flames, when many of their citizens were bleeding, and when            
 the progress of hostility and desolation left little room for those            
 calm and mature inquiries and reflections which must ever precede              
 the formation of a wise and wellbalanced government for a free                 
 people. It is not to be wondered at, that a government instituted              
 in times so inauspicious, should on experiment be found greatly                
 deficient and inadequate to the purpose it was intended to answer.             
This intelligent people perceived and regretted these defects.                  
 Still continuing no less attached to union than enamored of                    
 liberty, they observed the danger which immediately threatened the             
 former and more remotely the latter; and being pursuaded that ample            
 security for both could only be found in a national government more            
 wisely framed, they as with one voice, convened the late convention            
 at Philadelphia, to take that important subject under consideration.           
This convention composed of men who possessed the confidence of                 
 the people, and many of whom had become highly distinguished by                
 their patriotism, virtue and wisdom, in times which tried the minds            
 and hearts of men, undertook the arduous task. In the mild season              
 of peace, with minds unoccupied by other subjects, they passed many            
 months in cool, uninterrupted, and daily consultation; and finally,            
 without having been awed by power, or influenced by any passions               
 except love for their country, they presented and recommended to the           
 people the plan produced by their joint and very unanimous councils.           
Admit, for so is the fact, that this plan is only RECOMMENDED,                  
 not imposed, yet let it be remembered that it is neither recommended           
 to BLIND approbation, nor to BLIND reprobation; but to that sedate             
 and candid consideration which the magnitude and importance of the             
 subject demand, and which it certainly ought to receive. But this              
 (as was remarked in the foregoing number of this paper) is more to             
 be wished than expected, that it may be so considered and examined.            
 Experience on a former occasion teaches us not to be too sanguine              
 in such hopes. It is not yet forgotten that well-grounded                      
 apprehensions of imminent danger induced the people of America to              
 form the memorable Congress of 1774. That body recommended certain             
 measures to their constituents, and the event proved their wisdom;             
 yet it is fresh in our memories how soon the press began to teem               
 with pamphlets and weekly papers against those very measures. Not              
 only many of the officers of government, who obeyed the dictates of            
 personal interest, but others, from a mistaken estimate of                     
 consequences, or the undue influence of former attachments, or whose           
 ambition aimed at objects which did not correspond with the public             
 good, were indefatigable in their efforts to pursuade the people to            
 reject the advice of that patriotic Congress. Many, indeed, were               
 deceived and deluded, but the great majority of the people reasoned            
 and decided judiciously; and happy they are in reflecting that they            
 did so.                                                                        
They considered that the Congress was composed of many wise and                 
 experienced men. That, being convened from different parts of the              
 country, they brought with them and communicated to each other a               
 variety of useful information. That, in the course of the time they            
 passed together in inquiring into and discussing the true interests            
 of their country, they must have acquired very accurate knowledge on           
 that head. That they were individually interested in the public                
 liberty and prosperity, and therefore that it was not less their               
 inclination than their duty to recommend only such measures as,                
 after the most mature deliberation, they really thought prudent and            
 advisable.                                                                     
These and similar considerations then induced the people to rely                
 greatly on the judgment and integrity of the Congress; and they                
 took their advice, notwithstanding the various arts and endeavors              
 used to deter them from it. But if the people at large had reason              
 to confide in the men of that Congress, few of whom had been fully             
 tried or generally known, still greater reason have they now to                
 respect the judgment and advice of the convention, for it is well              
 known that some of the most distinguished members of that Congress,            
 who have been since tried and justly approved for patriotism and               
 abilities, and who have grown old in acquiring political                       
 information, were also members of this convention, and carried into            
 it their accumulated knowledge and experience.                                 
It is worthy of remark that not only the first, but every                       
 succeeding Congress, as well as the late convention, have invariably           
 joined with the people in thinking that the prosperity of America              
 depended on its Union. To preserve and perpetuate it was the great             
 object of the people in forming that convention, and it is also the            
 great object of the plan which the convention has advised them to              
 adopt. With what propriety, therefore, or for what good purposes,              
 are attempts at this particular period made by some men to                     
 depreciate the importance of the Union? Or why is it suggested that            
 three or four confederacies would be better than one? I am                     
 persuaded in my own mind that the people have always thought right             
 on this subject, and that their universal and uniform attachment to            
 the cause of the Union rests on great and weighty reasons, which I             
 shall endeavor to develop and explain in some ensuing papers. They             
 who promote the idea of substituting a number of distinct                      
 confederacies in the room of the plan of the convention, seem                  
 clearly to foresee that the rejection of it would put the                      
 continuance of the Union in the utmost jeopardy. That certainly                
 would be the case, and I sincerely wish that it may be as clearly              
 foreseen by every good citizen, that whenever the dissolution of the           
 Union arrives, America will have reason to exclaim, in the words of            
 the poet: ``FAREWELL! A LONG FAREWELL TO ALL MY GREATNESS.''                   
PUBLIUS.                                                                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
FEDERALIST No. 18                                                               
                                                                                
The Same Subject Continued                                                      
(The Insufficiency of the Present Confederation to Preserve the                 
 Union)                                                                         
For the Independent Journal.                                                    
                                                                                
HAMILTON AND MADISON                                                            
                                                                                
To the People of the State of New York:                                         
AMONG the confederacies of antiquity, the most considerable was                 
 that of the Grecian republics, associated under the Amphictyonic               
 council. From the best accounts transmitted of this celebrated                 
 institution, it bore a very instructive analogy to the present                 
 Confederation of the American States.                                          
The members retained the character of independent and sovereign                 
 states, and had equal votes in the federal council. This council               
 had a general authority to propose and resolve whatever it judged              
 necessary for the common welfare of Greece; to declare and carry on            
 war; to decide, in the last resort, all controversies between the              
 members; to fine the aggressing party; to employ the whole force               
 of the confederacy against the disobedient; to admit new members.              
 The Amphictyons were the guardians of religion, and of the immense             
 riches belonging to the temple of Delphos, where they had the right            
 of jurisdiction in controversies between the inhabitants and those             
 who came to consult the oracle. As a further provision for the                 
 efficacy of the federal powers, they took an oath mutually to defend           
 and protect the united cities, to punish the violators of this oath,           
 and to inflict vengeance on sacrilegious despoilers of the temple.             
In theory, and upon paper, this apparatus of powers seems amply                 
 sufficient for all general purposes. In several material instances,            
 they exceed the powers enumerated in the articles of confederation.            
 The Amphictyons had in their hands the superstition of the times,              
 one of the principal engines by which government was then                      
 maintained; they had a declared authority to use coercion against              
 refractory cities, and were bound by oath to exert this authority on           
 the necessary occasions.                                                       
Very different, nevertheless, was the experiment from the theory.               
 The powers, like those of the present Congress, were administered              
 by deputies appointed wholly by the cities in their political                  
 capacities; and exercised over them in the same capacities. Hence              
 the weakness, the disorders, and finally the destruction of the                
 confederacy. The more powerful members, instead of being kept in               
 awe and subordination, tyrannized successively over all the rest.              
 Athens, as we learn from Demosthenes, was the arbiter of Greece                
 seventy-three years. The Lacedaemonians next governed it                       
 twenty-nine years; at a subsequent period, after the battle of                 
 Leuctra, the Thebans had their turn of domination.                             
It happened but too often, according to Plutarch, that the                      
 deputies of the strongest cities awed and corrupted those of the               
 weaker; and that judgment went in favor of the most powerful party.            
Even in the midst of defensive and dangerous wars with Persia                   
 and Macedon, the members never acted in concert, and were, more or             
 fewer of them, eternally the dupes or the hirelings of the common              
 enemy. The intervals of foreign war were filled up by domestic                 
 vicissitudes convulsions, and carnage.                                         
After the conclusion of the war with Xerxes, it appears that the                
 Lacedaemonians required that a number of the cities should be turned           
 out of the confederacy for the unfaithful part they had acted. The             
 Athenians, finding that the Lacedaemonians would lose fewer                    
 partisans by such a measure than themselves, and would become                  
 masters of the public deliberations, vigorously opposed and defeated           
 the attempt. This piece of history proves at once the inefficiency             
 of the union, the ambition and jealousy of its most powerful                   
 members, and the dependent and degraded condition of the rest. The             
 smaller members, though entitled by the theory of their system to              
 revolve in equal pride and majesty around the common center, had               
 become, in fact, satellites of the orbs of primary magnitude.                  
Had the Greeks, says the Abbe Milot, been as wise as they were                  
 courageous, they would have been admonished by experience of the               
 necessity of a closer union, and would have availed themselves of              
 the peace which followed their success against the Persian arms, to            
 establish such a reformation. Instead of this obvious policy,                  
 Athens and Sparta, inflated with the victories and the glory they              
 had acquired, became first rivals and then enemies; and did each               
 other infinitely more mischief than they had suffered from Xerxes.             
 Their mutual jealousies, fears, hatreds, and injuries ended in the             
 celebrated Peloponnesian war; which itself ended in the ruin and               
 slavery of the Athenians who had begun it.                                     
As a weak government, when not at war, is ever agitated by                      
 internal dissentions, so these never fail to bring on fresh                    
 calamities from abroad. The Phocians having ploughed up some                   
 consecrated ground belonging to the temple of Apollo, the                      
 Amphictyonic council, according to the superstition of the age,                
 imposed a fine on the sacrilegious offenders. The Phocians, being              
 abetted by Athens and Sparta, refused to submit to the decree. The             
 Thebans, with others of the cities, undertook to maintain the                  
 authority of the Amphictyons, and to avenge the violated god. The              
 latter, being the weaker party, invited the assistance of Philip of            
 Macedon, who had secretly fostered the contest. Philip gladly                  
 seized the opportunity of executing the designs he had long planned            
 against the liberties of Greece. By his intrigues and bribes he won            
 over to his interests the popular leaders of several cities; by                
 their influence and votes, gained admission into the Amphictyonic              
 council; and by his arts and his arms, made himself master of the              
 confederacy.                                                                   
Such were the consequences of the fallacious principle on which                 
 this interesting establishment was founded. Had Greece, says a                 
 judicious observer on her fate, been united by a stricter                      
 confederation, and persevered in her union, she would never have               
 worn the chains of Macedon; and might have proved a barrier to the             
 vast projects of Rome.                                                         
The Achaean league, as it is called, was another society of                     
 Grecian republics, which supplies us with valuable instruction.                
The Union here was far more intimate, and its organization much                 
 wiser, than in the preceding instance. It will accordingly appear,             
 that though not exempt from a similar catastrophe, it by no means              
 equally deserved it.                                                           
The cities composing this league retained their municipal                       
 jurisdiction, appointed their own officers, and enjoyed a perfect              
 equality. The senate, in which they were represented, had the sole             
 and exclusive right of peace and war; of sending and receiving                 
 ambassadors; of entering into treaties and alliances; of                       
 appointing a chief magistrate or praetor, as he was called, who                
 commanded their armies, and who, with the advice and consent of ten            
 of the senators, not only administered the government in the recess            
 of the senate, but had a great share in its deliberations, when                
 assembled. According to the primitive constitution, there were two             
 praetors associated in the administration; but on trial a single               
 one was preferred.                                                             
It appears that the cities had all the same laws and customs,                   
 the same weights and measures, and the same money. But how far this            
 effect proceeded from the authority of the federal council is left             
 in uncertainty. It is said only that the cities were in a manner               
 compelled to receive the same laws and usages. When Lacedaemon was             
 brought into the league by Philopoemen, it was attended with an                
 abolition of the institutions and laws of Lycurgus, and an adoption            
 of those of the Achaeans. The Amphictyonic confederacy, of which               
 she had been a member, left her in the full exercise of her                    
 government and her legislation. This circumstance alone proves a               
 very material difference in the genius of the two systems.                     
It is much to be regretted that such imperfect monuments remain                 
 of this curious political fabric. Could its interior structure and             
 regular operation be ascertained, it is probable that more light               
 would be thrown by it on the science of federal government, than by            
 any of the like experiments with which we are acquainted.                      
One important fact seems to be witnessed by all the historians                  
 who take notice of Achaean affairs. It is, that as well after the              
 renovation of the league by Aratus, as before its dissolution by the           
 arts of Macedon, there was infinitely more of moderation and justice           
 in the administration of its government, and less of violence and              
 sedition in the people, than were to be found in any of the cities             
 exercising SINGLY all the prerogatives of sovereignty. The Abbe                
 Mably, in his observations on Greece, says that the popular                    
 government, which was so tempestuous elsewhere, caused no disorders            
 in the members of the Achaean republic, BECAUSE IT WAS THERE                   
 TEMPERED BY THE GENERAL AUTHORITY AND LAWS OF THE CONFEDERACY.                 
We are not to conclude too hastily, however, that faction did                   
 not, in a certain degree, agitate the particular cities; much less             
 that a due subordination and harmony reigned in the general system.            
 The contrary is sufficiently displayed in the vicissitudes and fate            
 of the republic.                                                               
Whilst the Amphictyonic confederacy remained, that of the                       
 Achaeans, which comprehended the less important cities only, made              
 little figure on the theatre of Greece. When the former became a               
 victim to Macedon, the latter was spared by the policy of Philip and           
 Alexander. Under the successors of these princes, however, a                   
 different policy prevailed. The arts of division were practiced                
 among the Achaeans. Each city was seduced into a separate interest;            
 the union was dissolved. Some of the cities fell under the tyranny             
 of Macedonian garrisons; others under that of usurpers springing               
 out of their own confusions. Shame and oppression erelong awaken               
 their love of liberty. A few cities reunited. Their example was                
 followed by others, as opportunities were found of cutting off their           
 tyrants. The league soon embraced almost the whole Peloponnesus.               
 Macedon saw its progress; but was hindered by internal dissensions             
 from stopping it. All Greece caught the enthusiasm and seemed ready            
 to unite in one confederacy, when the jealousy and envy in Sparta              
 and Athens, of the rising glory of the Achaeans, threw a fatal damp            
 on the enterprise. The dread of the Macedonian power induced the               
 league to court the alliance of the Kings of Egypt and Syria, who,             
 as successors of Alexander, were rivals of the king of Macedon.                
 This policy was defeated by Cleomenes, king of Sparta, who was led             
 by his ambition to make an unprovoked attack on his neighbors, the             
 Achaeans, and who, as an enemy to Macedon, had interest enough with            
 the Egyptian and Syrian princes to effect a breach of their                    
 engagements with the league.                                                   
The Achaeans were now reduced to the dilemma of submitting to                   
 Cleomenes, or of supplicating the aid of Macedon, its former                   
 oppressor. The latter expedient was adopted. The contests of the               
 Greeks always afforded a pleasing opportunity to that powerful                 
 neighbor of intermeddling in their affairs. A Macedonian army                  
 quickly appeared. Cleomenes was vanquished. The Achaeans soon                  
 experienced, as often happens, that a victorious and powerful ally             
 is but another name for a master. All that their most abject                   
 compliances could obtain from him was a toleration of the exercise             
 of their laws. Philip, who was now on the throne of Macedon, soon              
 provoked by his tyrannies, fresh combinations among the Greeks. The            
 Achaeans, though weakenened by internal dissensions and by the                 
 revolt of Messene, one of its members, being joined by the AEtolians           
 and Athenians, erected the standard of opposition. Finding                     
 themselves, though thus supported, unequal to the undertaking, they            
 once more had recourse to the dangerous expedient of introducing the           
 succor of foreign arms. The Romans, to whom the invitation was                 
 made, eagerly embraced it. Philip was conquered; Macedon subdued.              
 A new crisis ensued to the league. Dissensions broke out among it              
 members. These the Romans fostered. Callicrates and other popular              
 leaders became mercenary instruments for inveigling their countrymen.          
 The more effectually to nourish discord and disorder the Romans                
 had, to the astonishment of those who confided in their sincerity,             
 already proclaimed universal liberty1 throughout Greece. With                  
 the same insidious views, they now seduced the members from the                
 league, by representing to their pride the violation it committed on           
 their sovereignty. By these arts this union, the last hope of                  
 Greece, the last hope of ancient liberty, was torn into pieces; and            
 such imbecility and distraction introduced, that the arms of Rome              
 found little difficulty in completing the ruin which their arts had            
 commenced. The Achaeans were cut to pieces, and Achaia loaded with             
 chains, under which it is groaning at this hour.                               
I have thought it not superfluous to give the outlines of this                  
 important portion of history; both because it teaches more than one            
 lesson, and because, as a supplement to the outlines of the Achaean            
 constitution, it emphatically illustrates the tendency of federal              
 bodies rather to anarchy among the members, than to tyranny in the             
 head.                                                                          
PUBLIUS.                                                                        
1 This was but another name more specious for the independence                  
 of the members on the federal head.                                            
                                                                                
                                                                                
FEDERALIST No. 10                                                               
                                                                                
The Same Subject Continued                                                      
(The Union as a Safeguard Against Domestic Faction and                          
 Insurrection)                                                                  
From the New York Packet.                                                       
Friday, November 23, 1787.                                                      
                                                                                
MADISON                                                                         
                                                                                
To the People of the State of New York:                                         
AMONG the numerous advantages promised by a wellconstructed                     
 Union, none deserves to be more accurately developed than its                  
 tendency to break and control the violence of faction. The friend              
 of popular governments never finds himself so much alarmed for their           
 character and fate, as when he contemplates their propensity to this           
 dangerous vice. He will not fail, therefore, to set a due value on             
 any plan which, without violating the principles to which he is                
 attached, provides a proper cure for it. The instability,                      
 injustice, and confusion introduced into the public councils, have,            
 in truth, been the mortal diseases under which popular governments             
 have everywhere perished; as they continue to be the favorite and              
 fruitful topics from which the adversaries to liberty derive their             
 most specious declamations. The valuable improvements made by the              
 American constitutions on the popular models, both ancient and                 
 modern, cannot certainly be too much admired; but it would be an               
 unwarrantable partiality, to contend that they have as effectually             
 obviated the danger on this side, as was wished and expected.                  
 Complaints are everywhere heard from our most considerate and                  
 virtuous citizens, equally the friends of public and private faith,            
 and of public and personal liberty, that our governments are too               
 unstable, that the public good is disregarded in the conflicts of              
 rival parties, and that measures are too often decided, not                    
 according to the rules of justice and the rights of the minor party,           
 but by the superior force of an interested and overbearing majority.           
 However anxiously we may wish that these complaints had no                     
 foundation, the evidence, of known facts will not permit us to deny            
 that they are in some degree true. It will be found, indeed, on a              
 candid review of our situation, that some of the distresses under              
 which we labor have been erroneously charged on the operation of our           
 governments; but it will be found, at the same time, that other                
 causes will not alone account for many of our heaviest misfortunes;            
 and, particularly, for that prevailing and increasing distrust of              
 public engagements, and alarm for private rights, which are echoed             
 from one end of the continent to the other. These must be chiefly,             
 if not wholly, effects of the unsteadiness and injustice with which            
 a factious spirit has tainted our public administrations.                      
By a faction, I understand a number of citizens, whether                        
 amounting to a majority or a minority of the whole, who are united             
 and actuated by some common impulse of passion, or of interest,                
 adversed to the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and              
 aggregate interests of the community.                                          
There are two methods of curing the mischiefs of faction: the                   
 one, by removing its causes; the other, by controlling its effects.            
There are again two methods of removing the causes of faction:                  
 the one, by destroying the liberty which is essential to its                   
 existence; the other, by giving to every citizen the same opinions,            
 the same passions, and the same interests.                                     
It could never be more truly said than of the first remedy, that                
 it was worse than the disease. Liberty is to faction what air is to            
 fire, an aliment without which it instantly expires. But it could              
 not be less folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to                    
 political life, because it nourishes faction, than it would be to              
 wish the annihilation of air, which is essential to animal life,               
 because it imparts to fire its destructive agency.                             
The second expedient is as impracticable as the first would be                  
 unwise. As long as the reason of man continues fallible, and he is             
 at liberty to exercise it, different opinions will be formed. As               
 long as the connection subsists between his reason and his                     
 self-love, his opinions and his passions will have a reciprocal                
 influence on each other; and the former will be objects to which               
 the latter will attach themselves. The diversity in the faculties              
 of men, from which the rights of property originate, is not less an            
 insuperable obstacle to a uniformity of interests. The protection              
 of these faculties is the first object of government. From the                 
 protection of different and unequal faculties of acquiring property,           
 the possession of different degrees and kinds of property                      
 immediately results; and from the influence of these on the                    
 sentiments and views of the respective proprietors, ensues a                   
 division of the society into different interests and parties.                  
The latent causes of faction are thus sown in the nature of man;                
 and we see them everywhere brought into different degrees of                   
 activity, according to the different circumstances of civil society.           
 A zeal for different opinions concerning religion, concerning                  
 government, and many other points, as well of speculation as of                
 practice; an attachment to different leaders ambitiously contending            
 for pre-eminence and power; or to persons of other descriptions                
 whose fortunes have been interesting to the human passions, have, in           
 turn, divided mankind into parties, inflamed them with mutual                  
 animosity, and rendered them much more disposed to vex and oppress             
 each other than to co-operate for their common good. So strong is              
 this propensity of mankind to fall into mutual animosities, that               
 where no substantial occasion presents itself, the most frivolous              
 and fanciful distinctions have been sufficient to kindle their                 
 unfriendly passions and excite their most violent conflicts. But               
 the most common and durable source of factions has been the various            
 and unequal distribution of property. Those who hold and those who             
 are without property have ever formed distinct interests in society.           
 Those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall under a               
 like discrimination. A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a            
 mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many lesser interests,           
 grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and divide them into                
 different classes, actuated by different sentiments and views. The             
 regulation of these various and interfering interests forms the                
 principal task of modern legislation, and involves the spirit of               
 party and faction in the necessary and ordinary operations of the              
 government.                                                                    
No man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause, because his                   
 interest would certainly bias his judgment, and, not improbably,               
 corrupt his integrity. With equal, nay with greater reason, a body             
 of men are unfit to be both judges and parties at the same time;               
 yet what are many of the most important acts of legislation, but so            
 many judicial determinations, not indeed concerning the rights of              
 single persons, but concerning the rights of large bodies of                   
 citizens? And what are the different classes of legislators but                
 advocates and parties to the causes which they determine? Is a law             
 proposed concerning private debts? It is a question to which the               
 creditors are parties on one side and the debtors on the other.                
 Justice ought to hold the balance between them. Yet the parties                
 are, and must be, themselves the judges; and the most numerous                 
 party, or, in other words, the most powerful faction must be                   
 expected to prevail. Shall domestic manufactures be encouraged, and            
 in what degree, by restrictions on foreign manufactures? are                   
 questions which would be differently decided by the landed and the             
 manufacturing classes, and probably by neither with a sole regard to           
 justice and the public good. The apportionment of taxes on the                 
 various descriptions of property is an act which seems to require              
 the most exact impartiality; yet there is, perhaps, no legislative             
 act in which greater opportunity and temptation are given to a                 
 predominant party to trample on the rules of justice. Every                    
 shilling with which they overburden the inferior number, is a                  
 shilling saved to their own pockets.                                           
It is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will be able to                 
 adjust these clashing interests, and render them all subservient to            
 the public good. Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the               
 helm. Nor, in many cases, can such an adjustment be made at all                
 without taking into view indirect and remote considerations, which             
 will rarely prevail over the immediate interest which one party may            
 find in disregarding the rights of another or the good of the whole.           
The inference to which we are brought is, that the CAUSES of                    
 faction cannot be removed, and that relief is only to be sought in             
 the means of controlling its EFFECTS.                                          
If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief is                        
 supplied by the republican principle, which enables the majority to            
 defeat its sinister views by regular vote. It may clog the                     
 administration, it may convulse the society; but it will be unable             
 to execute and mask its violence under the forms of the Constitution.          
 When a majority is included in a faction, the form of popular                  
 government, on the other hand, enables it to sacrifice to its ruling           
 passion or interest both the public good and the rights of other               
 citizens. To secure the public good and private rights against the             
 danger of such a faction, and at the same time to preserve the                 
 spirit and the form of popular government, is then the great object            
 to which our inquiries are directed. Let me add that it is the                 
 great desideratum by which this form of government can be rescued              
 from the opprobrium under which it has so long labored, and be                 
 recommended to the esteem and adoption of mankind.                             
By what means is this object attainable? Evidently by one of                    
 two only. Either the existence of the same passion or interest in a            
 majority at the same time must be prevented, or the majority, having           
 such coexistent passion or interest, must be rendered, by their                
 number and local situation, unable to concert and carry into effect            
 schemes of oppression. If the impulse and the opportunity be                   
 suffered to coincide, we well know that neither moral nor religious            
 motives can be relied on as an adequate control. They are not found            
 to be such on the injustice and violence of individuals, and lose              
 their efficacy in proportion to the number combined together, that             
 is, in proportion as their efficacy becomes needful.                           
From this view of the subject it may be concluded that a pure                   
 democracy, by which I mean a society consisting of a small number of           
 citizens, who assemble and administer the government in person, can            
 admit of no cure for the mischiefs of faction. A common passion or             
 interest will, in almost every case, be felt by a majority of the              
 whole; a communication and concert result from the form of                     
 government itself; and there is nothing to check the inducements to            
 sacrifice the weaker party or an obnoxious individual. Hence it is             
 that such democracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and              
 contention; have ever been found incompatible with personal                    
 security or the rights of property; and have in general been as                
 short in their lives as they have been violent in their deaths.                
 Theoretic politicians, who have patronized this species of                     
 government, have erroneously supposed that by reducing mankind to a            
 perfect equality in their political rights, they would, at the same            
 time, be perfectly equalized and assimilated in their possessions,             
 their opinions, and their passions.                                            
A republic, by which I mean a government in which the scheme of                 
 representation takes place, opens a different prospect, and promises           
 the cure for which we are seeking. Let us examine the points in                
 which it varies from pure democracy, and we shall comprehend both              
 the nature of the cure and the efficacy which it must derive from              
 the Union.                                                                     
The two great points of difference between a democracy and a                    
 republic are: first, the delegation of the government, in the                  
 latter, to a small number of citizens elected by the rest;                     
 secondly, the greater number of citizens, and greater sphere of                
 country, over which the latter may be extended.                                
The effect of the first difference is, on the one hand, to                      
 refine and enlarge the public views, by passing them through the               
 medium of a chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern             
 the true interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of           
 justice will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or partial           
 considerations. Under such a regulation, it may well happen that               
 the public voice, pronounced by the representatives of the people,             
 will be more consonant to the public good than if pronounced by the            
 people themselves, convened for the purpose. On the other hand, the            
 effect may be inverted. Men of factious tempers, of local                      
 prejudices, or of sinister designs, may, by intrigue, by corruption,           
 or by other means, first obtain the suffrages, and then betray the             
 interests, of the people. The question resulting is, whether small             
 or extensive republics are more favorable to the election of proper            
 guardians of the public weal; and it is clearly decided in favor of            
 the latter by two obvious considerations:                                      
In the first place, it is to be remarked that, however small the                
 republic may be, the representatives must be raised to a certain               
 number, in order to guard against the cabals of a few; and that,               
 however large it may be, they must be limited to a certain number,             
 in order to guard against the confusion of a multitude. Hence, the             
 number of representatives in the two cases not being in proportion             
 to that of the two constituents, and being proportionally greater in           
 the small republic, it follows that, if the proportion of fit                  
 characters be not less in the large than in the small republic, the            
 former will present a greater option, and consequently a greater               
 probability of a fit choice.                                                   
In the next place, as each representative will be chosen by a                   
 greater number of citizens in the large than in the small republic,            
 it will be more difficult for unworthy candidates to practice with             
 success the vicious arts by which elections are too often carried;             
 and the suffrages of the people being more free, will be more                  
 likely to centre in men who possess the most attractive merit and              
 the most diffusive and established characters.                                 
It must be confessed that in this, as in most other cases, there                
 is a mean, on both sides of which inconveniences will be found to              
 lie. By enlarging too much the number of electors, you render the              
 representatives too little acquainted with all their local                     
 circumstances and lesser interests; as by reducing it too much, you            
 render him unduly attached to these, and too little fit to                     
 comprehend and pursue great and national objects. The federal                  
 Constitution forms a happy combination in this respect; the great              
 and aggregate interests being referred to the national, the local              
 and particular to the State legislatures.                                      
The other point of difference is, the greater number of citizens                
 and extent of territory which may be brought within the compass of             
 republican than of democratic government; and it is this                       
 circumstance principally which renders factious combinations less to           
 be dreaded in the former than in the latter. The smaller the                   
 society, the fewer probably will be the distinct parties and                   
 interests composing it; the fewer the distinct parties and                     
 interests, the more frequently will a majority be found of the same            
 party; and the smaller the number of individuals composing a                   
 majority, and the smaller the compass within which they are placed,            
 the more easily will they concert and execute their plans of                   
 oppression. Extend the sphere, and you take in a greater variety of            
 parties and interests; you make it less probable that a majority of            
 the whole will have a common motive to invade the rights of other              
 citizens; or if such a common motive exists, it will be more                   
 difficult for all who feel it to discover their own strength, and to           
 act in unison with each other. Besides other impediments, it may be            
 remarked that, where there is a consciousness of unjust or                     
 dishonorable purposes, communication is always checked by distrust             
 in proportion to the number whose concurrence is necessary.                    
Hence, it clearly appears, that the same advantage which a                      
 republic has over a democracy, in controlling the effects of                   
 faction, is enjoyed by a large over a small republic,--is enjoyed by           
 the Union over the States composing it. Does the advantage consist             
 in the substitution of representatives whose enlightened views and             
 virtuous sentiments render them superior to local prejudices and               
 schemes of injustice? It will not be denied that the representation            
 of the Union will be most likely to possess these requisite                    
 endowments. Does it consist in the greater security afforded by a              
 greater variety of parties, against the event of any one party being           
 able to outnumber and oppress the rest? In an equal degree does the            
 increased variety of parties comprised within the Union, increase              
 this security. Does it, in fine, consist in the greater obstacles              
 opposed to the concert and accomplishment of the secret wishes of an           
 unjust and interested majority? Here, again, the extent of the                 
 Union gives it the most palpable advantage.                                    
The influence of factious leaders may kindle a flame within                     
 their particular States, but will be unable to spread a general                
 conflagration through the other States. A religious sect may                   
 degenerate into a political faction in a part of the Confederacy;              
 but the variety of sects dispersed over the entire face of it must             
 secure the national councils against any danger from that source. A            
 rage for paper money, for an abolition of debts, for an equal                  
 division of property, or for any other improper or wicked project,             
 will be less apt to pervade the whole body of the Union than a                 
 particular member of it; in the same proportion as such a malady is            
 more likely to taint a particular county or district, than an entire           
 State.                                                                         
In the extent and proper structure of the Union, therefore, we                  
 behold a republican remedy for the diseases most incident to                   
 republican government. And according to the degree of pleasure and             
 pride we feel in being republicans, ought to be our zeal in                    
 cherishing the spirit and supporting the character of Federalists.             
PUBLIUS.                                                                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
